Introduction:
Nowadays, we talk a lot about branding,branding websites, branding content, branding research studies,
 branding events. The list goes on and on. But what is branding? Not what do we mean by branding, but what
 does the word actually mean?

If you don’t already know the answer, it will seem pretty obvious. The term derives from the Old Norse word
 brandr or “to burn,” and refers to the practice of branding livestock, which dates back more than 4,000
 years to the Indus Valley. Of course, branding has evolved over the centuries-from farmers claiming their
 property, to artisans claiming credit for their work, to factories claiming their products, to companies 
claiming their products were better than others.

What we brand, how we brand it, and why we brand it has changed. But branding in the twenty-first century
 is still about taking ownership, and not just for property and products. It’s about owning what your 
company values and represents, owning up to your shortcomings, and earning customer trust and loyalty 
through your words, your actions, and your stories.

objective view(brief history):

Ok, now we know about branding. But what about its origin? How it came to be what we refer to it as per current
era? Allow me clear that up with a brief history regarding branding.The practice of branding livestock is much
 older than the word. Cave paintings from the Stone Age suggest that early man might have marked cattle with
 symbols drawn in paint and tar.Egyptian funeral monuments, approximately 4,000 years old, depict
 branded cattle.

During this time, brands were also used to identify goods. Pottery makers from China, India, Greece, Rome, 
and Mesopotamia used different engravings to identify not only who made ceramic goods but also
 what types of materials were used and where the goods were produced. Some of the earliest known marked
 Chinese pottery dates back 4,000 to 5,000 years. Archaeologists have also identified roughly 1,000 unique
 potters’ marks in use during the first three centuries of the Roman Empire.

A couple of centuries later, during the Industrial Revolution, another type of branding was born, "mass
 branding". This time to solve a new business challenge. Consumers were accustomed to buying local products
 from local merchants. Generic products didn’t have the same appeal to the masses. So factories borrowed
 a tactic from winemakers and began branding logos onto the barrels which was used to transport their goods.
 Soon, they also began marking individual products, giving birth to such popular American brands as Campbell’s
 Soup, Coca-Cola and Juicy Fruit

By the late nineteenth century, companies had invested so much in branding that they needed a way to protect
 those investments from competitors. In 1875, they made it possible with the passing of the Trade Marks Registration Act.
Now branding is just something companies do to own something and thus came the era of branding as we know off.
